->Control Statements in python:

1) Sequence statements
2) Conditional statements
3) Loop statements

-> Loops and Control Statements (continue, break and pass) in Python

1) While Loop

Syntax :
while expression:
    statement(s)


2) For in Loop

Syntax:

for iterator_var in sequence:
    statements(s)



3) Nested Loops

Syntax:
for iterator_var in sequence:
    for iterator_var in sequence:
        statements(s)
        statements(s)


-> Python supports the usual logical conditions from mathematics:

Equals: a == b
Not Equals: a != b
Less than: a < b
Less than or equal to: a <= b
Greater than: a > b
Greater than or equal to: a >= 

------------------
-> Python Loops

Python has two primitive loop commands:

while loops
for loops

->The while Loop
With the while loop we can execute a set of statements as long as a condition is true.

->The break Statement
With the break statement we can stop the loop even if the while condition is true.


-> The continue Statement
With the continue statement we can stop the current iteration, and continue with the next:

-> The else Statement
With the else statement we can run a block of code once when the condition no longer is true:


->if Statement Syntax

if test expression:
    statement(s)

Here, the program evaluates the test expression and will execute statement(s) only if the test expression is True.
If the test expression is False, the statement(s) is not executed.
In Python, the body of the if statement is indicated by the indentation. The body starts with an indentation and the first unindented line marks the end.



-> if...else Statement

Syntax of if...else
if test expression:
    Body of if
else:
    Body of else

The if..else statement evaluates test expression and will execute the body of if only when the test condition is True.
If the condition is False, the body of else is executed. Indentation is used to separate the blocks.


-> if...elif...else Statement

Syntax of if...elif...else
if test expression:
    Body of if
elif test expression:
    Body of elif
else: 
    Body of else


The elif is short for else if. It allows us to check for multiple expressions.
If the condition for if is False, it checks the condition of the next elif block and so on.
If all the conditions are False, the body of else is executed.
Only one block among the several if...elif...else blocks is executed according to the condition.
The if block can have only one else block. But it can have multiple elif blocks.



-> Nested if statements

We can have a if...elif...else statement inside another if...elif...else statement. This is called nesting in computer programming.
Any number of these statements can be nested inside one another. Indentation is the only way to figure out the level of nesting. 
They can get confusing, so they must be avoided unless necessary.













